Why is the curve of value?
Let us see.
To analyze the size of the
market or sector, true or false
or false, the value curve informs
us of this.
To analyze external factors,
such as political, economic,
social, no, it has nothing
to do with the value curve.
To understand what the competitors
in the sector are doing in
general, yes, the value curve
tells us very graphically what
the rest is doing.
To understand what competitors invest
in and we also, what they invest
in in order to offer value to
their customers, correct.
To understand what are the
factors or variables
determining the value proposal,
to understand whether in our
sector the important or what
the rest of competitors
are orienting in price,
quality, design, safety,
effectively.
To understand and visualize the
differences between the value
proposals of the different
segments, true.
To have a clearer view of what the
sector in general does, as a starting
point for being able to innovate.
Does the value curve help us innovate?
and yes.
Think about the restaurant industry.
What are the main
competitive factors?
We will analyze factor by factor
to see if they are part of the
proposal, of the competitive
proposal of restaurants in general.
The price?
and yes.
The gastronomic sophistication?
The environment and the decoration.
and yes.
The convenience of the timetable?
The after-sales service?
The post-sales service is not.
The gastronomic variation?
and yes.
The service of the restaurant
staff?
and yes.
Recognition of Marks?
The quality of raw materials.
Well, it is clear that it is the after-
sales service the factor that does
not correspond here.
In general, for each factor
of when we analyze a value
curve, for each of the factors,
when we are drawing a higher
point, a higher curve, what
does that mean?
More investment?
Yes is correct.
To offer a higher value, you usually
have to invest more.
And a higher value?
Both answers are correct.
Let's see, this curve of value, do
you think this curve of value corresponds
to an online bank?
Let's see the points.
High security, high profitability,
high gram of products, high office
and cash.
That is, it invests a lot in the
capillary of offices and cashers.
This is not an online
bank.
That is, this is false.
And now we look at the orange
color value curve.
In this case, we say that it
corresponds with a bank or
a proposal mainly online.
And we see that the difference
from their traditional cometors
is, it is mainly here, in
offices and cash.
In this case, the orange curve has
deinvested in offices and cash.
It is obvious that it is
an online bank.
Innovation in value, which was
described in the Blue Ocean
strategy, contradicts one of the
most accepted paradigms in
business strategy, which contradicts
Michael Porter's generic
strategies, which told us
that we must choose between
differentiation and cost
leadership.
The company that has a value curve
here above, the yellow, seeks
its competitive advantage
from the differentiation of
cost leadership or value
innovation.
It seems like a clear curve of company
seeking differentiation that has
invested in all the factors to
offer superior value to its
customers.
Traditional strategic knowledge,
mainly Porter's generic strategies,
have taught us how to compete
in red oceans, i.e.
in mature markets
where competitive warfare
jumps, etc.
Looking for the blue ocean.
Everything we've learned so
far helps us compete in
red oceans.
Traditional strategic knowledge
has taught us to choose or
combine between increasing
the value offered and reducing
the cost for the company.
We are always taught to choose
from them.
Michael Porter once said that
we have to choose between differentiation
and cost leadership.
The strategic focus of the
blue ocean strategy is,
let's see, not to compete
frontally within the current
market.
and correct.
Looking for a new market.
Innovation in value.
and correct.
Think about non-customers.
The four correspond to the strategic
approach of the Blue Ocean
Strategy.
Why is the Blue Ocean
Strategy?
To be better than our
competitors?
The blue ocean strategy teaches us
to innovate, teaches us to get
out of the market, the red ocean.
It is not directly teaching us
to compete, to focus on our competitors
and to be better.
Innovation in value, what does
it mean?
Increase value for the customer
and reduce price?
and reduce cost for the company.
This is second.
It's not just about lowering
the price, you may not lower the
price, you may even increase it.
What is needed is to reduce
the cost for the company.
A blue ocean is a new market space
where there is no current
or future competition.
Or a new market space that will
allow you to grow without having
to wear out in competitive
warfare and at least initially.
The B response is more appropriate
because a blue ocean will arrive
on a day when it becomes a
red ocean.
That means you won't get rid of the
competition forever.
Companies usually address
the same customers with
similar proposals, which forces
them to compete frontally
with each other.
Well, this phrase is correct and
is very representative of the
general myopia with which almost
all companies act or act.
It is not to rethink things.
The best tool to evolve
your value curve we've learned,
which is it?
The Pest Matrix, the RIC matrix,
think about non-customers or
the Boston Consulting Group matrix.
This is the RIC matrix.
How can the cost be reduced?
Reducing, increasing, eliminating
or creating.
Well, then reducing and
eliminating investment in some of
the factors, as the RIC matrix
teaches us.
And when we are talking about creating
within the RIC matrix, what are
we talking about?
It is a factor that no one in the
industry has taken into account.
Either to improve the service
to offer a higher value or
to improve the service to
increase the price.
The answer is actually A.
Creating a factor is exactly that.
It is to incorporate values or factors
that had never been taken into account.
That is why we talk about creating.
The RIC matrix helps us create
value innovation.
This means reducing the cost for the
company and increasing the value
offered to the entire market.
Increase value offered to a segment
of customers or non-customers.
The correct answer is B.
You cannot offer a value that is
higher than the entire market.
What you have to think about is
a customer segment and offer greater
value to that customer segment.